H1 Tags:
Risk management in startup teams

H2 Tags:
Cofounder conflict
Vesting of founder shares
What happens when the company raises money from investors?
What happens in an exit?
Feedback

P Tags:
This browser is no longer supported.
Upgrade to Microsoft Edge to take advantage of the latest features, security updates, and technical support.
This unit covers how to manage risk in startup teams. We'll start with managing conflict between cofounders. Then, we'll discuss how to use vesting of founder shares to help protect the company if one founder leaves.
Disagreement among cofounders can lead to a breakdown in working relationships. If this breakdown isn't addressed, it can cause startups to fail.
If you haven't already, download and complete a Founder Alignment Exercise. It can be a useful way to unpack the expectations of each founder and identify any mismatches before they lead to breakdowns in team cohesion.
Another simple strategy that can reduce the risk of serious cofounder conflict is to discuss how the cofounders will work together at the outset and reflect what's agreed in a cofounder agreement.
A cofounder agreement is a simple legal agreement. It sets out how the company will be run, how the cofounders will make decisions, how they'll resolve disagreements, and what happens if an agreement can't be reached.
The key elements of a cofounder agreement typically include:
It's important to draft a cofounder agreement before anyone has created any substantive intellectual property (such as writing code) or there's any money involved (either customer revenues or investor funds). Last, make sure that each cofounder signs the agreement!
Despite your best efforts, it's possible that you or one of your cofounders will decide to leave the company. Departure of a cofounder in the first few years of a startup is surprisingly common. It can happen for many reasons, including financial pressures or disagreements between founders.
A founder leaving but remaining a large shareholder can be a major demotivating factor for the remaining founders, who are working hard for no additional benefit. It can also make the company much less attractive to investors, because a sizable chunk of equity is now owned by someone who's (at best) passive and not contributing, or (at worst) disgruntled and actively seeking to disrupt the company by blocking decisions or refusing to sign critical documents.
To address this problem, startups frequently adopt founder vesting. That is, each founder earns equity over time, contingent on their ongoing involvement and performance.
The mechanics of founder vesting vary somewhat by region. In essence, they enable issuing of shares to cofounders on company formation. The company holds the right to buy back some or all of those shares at nominal cost if the individual leaves.
The longer the person remains in the company, the more of their shares vest (ownership transfers permanently to the individual).
The main benefits of founder vesting are:
Founder vesting has two components:
Cliff. A cliff is typically a one-year period from the date of incorporation in which none of the founders have any vested shares. At the end of the year, assuming that each founder has remained involved, 25 percent of their shares will vest.
If a founder departs within the first year, they forfeit all of their shareholding. This makes sense on the basis that in most startups, not much value is created in the first year.
Monthly vesting. The remaining 75 percent of each founder's shareholding is vested in equal installments over the following three years.

It's common for early-stage investors to insist on a reset of founder vesting so that each of the founders has to re-earn their shares, including any that had already vested.
This can be a contentious point, but investors often request it because they want to have confidence that all members of the founding team are committed to the business going forward.
If the company is acquired before all of the founders' shares have fully vested, it's common for vesting agreements to allow for immediate vesting of unvested shares. This process is known as accelerated vesting. It ensures that founders are properly compensated alongside investors, employees, and any other shareholders.
Was this page helpful?
