H1 Tags:
Make use of mentors

H2 Tags:
What makes a good mentor
What motivates mentors
How to find good mentors
How to make the best use of mentors
How to tap into the Microsoft for Startups Mentor Network
Feedback

P Tags:
This browser is no longer supported.
Upgrade to Microsoft Edge to take advantage of the latest features, security updates, and technical support.
The term mentor can refer to many different types of relationships. In startups, it's generally a reference to tapping into the expertise and networks of experienced founders, industry professionals, or investors.
The main reason why startup founders seek out mentors is to short-circuit the learning curve. By tapping into guidance from more experienced founders (especially those who have been through the startup loop multiple times), new founders can more quickly find the right path to growth, overcome obstacles, and avoid making critical mistakes. A good mentor can also help startup founders broaden their network and connect with others who can help them as their business grows.
Just as inclusive hiring can be a source of competitive advantage, broadening the capabilities of your team via experienced mentors can be a hugely beneficial step.
In this unit, we'll focus on two types of mentoring:
We'll also briefly discuss the mentor network that's part of the Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub and explain how you can tap into this valuable resource.
Not everyone who's launched a startup makes a good mentor, even if they've been successful. As highlighted by venture capitalist Bryce Roberts, "When successful people give advice, I hear this: Here are the lottery numbers I played. They worked for me!"
In many cases, successful entrepreneurs have difficulty articulating what led to their success. When they have single-time successes, their one set of experiences might not be directly relevant to other startups. That's especially true if those startups are in different industries or pursuing different business models.
The best mentors are often those who have broad positive and negative experiences with startups, along with a deep understanding of startup best practices.
Here are some attributes to look for when you're seeking out a mentor for your startup:
Good mentoring generally follows a Socratic approach. The mentor guides founders by asking open questions and encouraging them to consider other possibilities. The mentor doesn't try to give founders the answers (or even worse, tell them what to do and expect compliance).
As stated earlier, mentors are successful and experienced people who are willing to give you their time for free. It's important to ask why people with such valuable skills might be motivated to do this.
If a mentor is an experienced founder who has achieved success, it's common that they themselves have benefited from access to mentors as they grew their own company. In most startup ecosystems, there's a strong pay-it-forward ethos in which successful founders give back to the startup community through mentoring and sometimes angel investing.
This ethos is at the heart of successful startup ecosystems such as Silicon Valley. It's increasingly common in other maturing startup ecosystems around the world, because of the valuable flywheel effect that it has on attracting and producing founders and investors.
Many successful entrepreneurs are willing to provide mentoring to first-time founders as long as:
There's a growing number of mentors whose motivations hinge on increasing diversity in startups and supporting founders from minority backgrounds. Some of these mentors are available through startup programs that work exclusively with underrepresented founders.
If the mentor is an early-stage investor, their motivation might be a combination of paying it forward and a desire to find and cultivate high-quality deal flow. In some cases, the mentoring relationship will work only if the investor views the startup as a genuine investment prospect.
If the mentor is employed by an organization that runs a startup program such as an accelerator, their role will generally include providing mentoring to those startups that have been accepted into the program. In many cases, this role is called an entrepreneur-in-residence (EIR).
Finally, there are opportunities to engage experienced founders and others in a paid capacity. This engagement is more commonly viewed as consulting rather than mentoring, and it meets a different set of needs.
There are many ways to tap into high-quality mentoring. The best way to find good mentors depends on the maturity of your local startup ecosystem. Here are some practical tips that are likely to be helpful no matter where you're located:
Because mentoring is usually not a paid relationship, it's critical that you make the best possible use of this scarce resource and ensure that you don't overstep reasonable boundaries.
Here are practical tips to help you make the best use of mentors:
The Microsoft for Startups Mentor Network offers you access to a diverse mentor community with hundreds of business and technical experts currently working for Microsoft. They're available for one-to-one guidance. Many of them were startup founders themselves.
This benefit is available through the Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub. Use it to get expert input on important topics such as feedback on your idea, how to accelerate your development, and exploration of potential go-to-market opportunities with Microsoft.
Was this page helpful?
