H1 Tags:
Different types of investors

H2 Tags:
Friends and family
Angel investors
Venture capital
Not all money is equally valuable
Feedback

P Tags:
This browser is no longer supported.
Upgrade to Microsoft Edge to take advantage of the latest features, security updates, and technical support.
In this unit, we explain three of the most common types of startup investors: friends and family, angel investors, and venture capital (VC) funds.
It's common for startup founders to raise their first funding round from friends and family members.
The motivations of these investors vary. Typically, they want to support the entrepreneur. For example, the investor might be your uncle who wants to help you get started. They also might want to try to generate a return from their investment by getting in early.
It's worth noting that friends and family are generally the only investors who will fund you when all you have is an idea for a company.
Friends and family can be a good source of early capital if they're happy to be passive investors and don't expect to be involved in running your business.
For most founders, the biggest challenge with friends and family rounds is that you have a friend or a family member who's now a shareholder in your company. They're financially exposed to the success or failure of your business.
This arrangement can have a profound effect on your relationship with that person. It's wise to think about how to manage this relationship over the long term.
Tips for raising money from friends and family:
An angel investor is a wealthy individual who invests their own money, like Melanie in the previous unit's example. In many cases, they're successful entrepreneurs themselves.
Good angel investors bring capital along with expertise and networks that can help you grow your company. Angel investors often work in groups. An angel round can have a few or sometimes 20 or more individual investors participating.
Angel groups often invest in a wide range of sectors, with their investment interests influenced by their members' individual expertise.
Generally, angel investors will consider investing in a startup only after it launches at least a minimal viable product and generates traction in the form of product usage and, ideally, revenue.
Tips for raising money from angel investors:
VC funds are professional investment firms managed by general partners who have often been successful entrepreneurs themselves. VC funds generally invest money provided by institutional investors like limited partners such as pension funds. These investors allocate funding to VC firms as part of their diverse portfolio of investments.
Some VC funds invest at seed stage, but it's more common for them to invest at Series A and beyond. They normally invest larger amounts than is typical for angel investors.
Most VC firms have a 10-year lifespan. They go through distinct phases:
It's important to know where a VC fund is in its life cycle. There's little point in pitching a fund that's in its ninth year of a 10-year life.
VC funds generally have a preferred investment stage, like seed, Series A, and Series B. They also often focus on one or more specific sectors, such as blockchain, AI, and health tech.
Generally, VC funds will consider investing in a startup only after it has launched a product, generated early traction, and can show strong evidence of product-market fit. At this point, it's common for the company's growth to be limited by capital rather than by customer demand. The funding allows the company to rapidly accelerate customer acquisition and growth.
Tips for raising money from VC funds:
Good investors can add significant value to your company by sharing their expertise and networks. They'll also provide guidance to the founders as they work on growing the business. Recognized investors, such as top-tier VC funds, will also add credibility by association. Their involvement might make it easier for you to raise subsequent funding rounds.
There are investors who will add limited value, such as friends and family, as we discussed previously. There are also investors who add negative value.
A good rule of thumb is that smart, involved money is better than dumb, passive money, which in turn is better than dumb, involved money.
The benefits of smart money are clear. Smart money comes from someone who has relevant expertise. Being involved means they're willing to commit meaningful time to helping you grow your company.
Dumb money comes from people who don't know much about your business or about how startups work. Being passive means they're prepared to take a back seat, and they have no ambitions to contribute to running your company. Dumb, passive money is fine if you have access to other sources of experienced guidance and the investment is on general terms.
Dumb, involved money is problematic. It comes from people who don't have much value to contribute, but who insist on having an active role in your company. Sometimes dumb, involved money comes from inexperienced angel investors who have created wealth in other sectors, such as retail or property investing, and want to try their hand at angel investing.
It's wise to avoid these investors. Experience has shown that the challenge of managing their involvement frequently outweighs the benefit of the capital they provide.
Was this page helpful?
