H1 Tags:
Deliver a compelling pitch

H2 Tags:
Attributes of a great startup pitch
Design your PowerPoint presentation
Deliver a compelling pitch
Task: Review these pitch videos
What you learned
Feedback

P Tags:
This browser is no longer supported.
Upgrade to Microsoft Edge to take advantage of the latest features, security updates, and technical support.
In this unit, you learn what makes a startup pitch effective.
By analyzing pitches delivered by large numbers of startups, you can identify several common themes that emerge from the best of them. These themes are covered in the following sections.
Give your audience a clear, unambiguous understanding of your company in the first 30-60 seconds.
Use basic terms rather than jargon or flowery language. For example, "We provide a dashboard for banking customers to aggregate all of their bank feeds in one place" would be a clearer opening statement than "We're an AI-powered financial analytics company that's going to disrupt the consumer banking industry using innovative patented technology."
If there's a simple and obvious "we're the X for Y," use it here. For example, "Camplify is Airbnb for caravans and motor homes." Don't refer to an X unless you're confident 100 percent of your audience knows what X is.
It's surprisingly common for an audience to remain unclear about what the company does halfway through a pitch. This isn't a good situation!
Great startup pitches engage the audience in the first 30 seconds. Then, make a clear argument for why your startup needs to exist, why it solves an important problem, and why your audience should pay attention to the rest of the pitch. If you have a personal, authentic connection to the problem, this is a great time to explain it.
If you fail to engage the audience in the first 30 seconds, people tune out and begin checking their email or phone. Immediate engagement is especially important if you're pitching at a demo day alongside many other startups.
If you've experienced great early traction, or anything else noteworthy, talk about it in the first 60 seconds. Nothing gets investors more excited about a business than telling them that it's making money and growing fast.
You might have spent the last 10 years of your life deeply immersed in a certain problem space, but it's likely that most of the audience hasn't. You need to explain the problem clearly, so that your solution and entire business model make sense in context.
Clear context is particularly important for deep-tech startups or those operating in narrow B2B niches, and less critical for consumer-focused startups.
Many great startup pitches contain an element of surprise, some new fact or insight that has your audience thinking, "I had no idea the problem was this bad. It's amazing that nobody solved it already!" This can be an effective way to set up your solution.
For example, if your startup is focused on helping nurses prepare hospital operating theaters, you might want to start by telling your audience that in X percent of medical procedures there's at least one missing item of essential equipment, and this simple oversight leads to Y thousand preventable deaths every year. By starting with this surprising revelation, you give your audience a clearer understanding of the seriousness of the problem and, therefore, of the importance of your solution.
There's often a point in good startup pitches where an audience realizes that what the company is doing is exciting. You can help them reach this realization by using contrast.
For example, you might visually show the extent of the problem you're tackling (for example, with a photo showing how large companies still manage complex, high-risk projects by using a whiteboard and sticky notes), and then show the beautiful user interface of your product that will replace this inefficient and archaic method.
Sometimes, startups are based on a unique window of opportunity, such as a fundamental change in consumer behavior, technology, or regulatory environment. This change might be obvious to you, but not yet to your audience. By explaining why this change creates a fantastic window of opportunity for your company, you can help your audience reach an aha moment.
You can keep your audience engaged by having a logical structure to your pitch, outlining that structure at the outset, and then delivering that structure.
For example, at the beginning of your pitch, you might tell your audience that you're going to start by giving them some important context for the problem you're solving. Then, you might explain why it's important and why no one else solved it. Next, you describe your solution and why your customers are signing up for it. You can then cover the business model and traction. Finally, you can talk about next steps and your funding round.
As you then step through each element of the pitch, your audience remains more engaged, because they already have a rough road map in their minds and can see how each part of your pitch flows logically from the last part.
In contrast, if your pitch jumps around and doesn't follow a logical flow, or isn't in the order your audience expects, it's more difficult for them to absorb.
Besides a sound message, a successful pitch also needs a polished delivery. An effective presentation includes clear, well-designed PowerPoint slides.
If you have a lot of text or complexity on any of your slides, the audience will unconsciously try to read and make sense of it. They stop listening to you, and the important points you're making are lost on them.
Simple images are much more effective in supporting the points that you make verbally.
Make the font size large enough for everyone in the room to read. This is especially important for pitches to large audiences, such as at an accelerator demo day. If possible, go to the venue before the event, stand in the back row, and step through each of your slides on the screen. If anything is too small to read, enlarge it or remove it.
The same principle applies to online pitches. Verify that everything in your slides is large enough to be read on a typical laptop screen while using whatever video platform will host the demo day.
The more important the pitch, the more attention should go into making the design polished and consistent with your company's brand. If you need the help of a designer, this small investment more than pays for itself.
If you're pitching at a public event, or one that will be recorded and posted online, put your name, company name, and website URL on every slide. Doing so makes it easier for people to find out more about your company, and to share it with others.
If you built a great product, be sure to display it in your presentation. It's been said (only somewhat facetiously) that the likelihood of a live product demo working is inversely proportional to the importance of the meeting. If you feel brave, do include a live demo in your pitch, but be prepared with at least one fallback solution, such as a prerecorded video walk-through of your product or a few attractive photos.
After you create your pitch and an accompanying PowerPoint deck, it's time to make sure you can deliver it in as convincing and compelling a way as possible.
Here are some practical tips for delivering a great pitch.
Speak more slowly than you think you should. You're asking your audience to process a large amount of new information, so make it easy for them by talking at a relaxed pace.
It's easier to speak slowly when you know that the content you're going to deliver fits easily within the available time. When you're practicing your pitch, make sure that you consistently finish comfortably within the allotted time, so you don't feel pressured to rush through it.
If you have an accent that might make your speech difficult to understand, speak even more slowly and deliberately.
All good performers learn how to project their voice. Although delivering a pitch should be more about the content than being theatrical, it's still important to know how to project your voice so you can be heard and understood.
Smile and show confidence and sincerity, but not so much that it appears manufactured. Smiling not only helps you appear confident, but it can actually help you feel more relaxed and confident.
Knowing the content of your presentation thoroughly also makes it much easier to feel confident that you can deliver it without any missteps.
Great presenters use inflection in their voice to convey meaning and emotion. By learning how to vary the volume, pitch, and timbre of your voice, you'll keep your audience much more engaged.
To learn how to use your voice to better convey meaning, view this TED talk by Julian Treasure.
A deliberate pause can help you to underscore important points. It can also give you and your audience an opportunity to gather your thoughts before moving onto the next point.
Most people exhibit one or more bad habits when they present. These habits can be vocal, such as frequently saying um or you know or go right ahead and or allowing their voice pitch to go up at the end of every sentence as if they're asking a question. The habits can be physical, such as wringing their hands, swaying from side to side, or bouncing up and down on their toes as they speak.
Such bad habits can be distracting for your audience, make you look nervous and unprofessional, and diminish the impact of your presentation.
Many people are completely unaware that they're doing these things, so the first step to fixing bad habits is to identify them. Consider practicing your pitch in front of some friends and asking them to point out any bad habits, or recording and playing back a video of yourself delivering your pitch.
By consciously practicing your pitch with your habits in mind, you'll be able to gradually remove them and improve your delivery.
If you say something during a pitch that your audience doubts, even unconsciously, it triggers the part of the brain, called the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, which processes doubt. When it's activated, this part of the brain remains in a heightened state of activation for several minutes. During this period, everything else you say might be processed through a heightened sense of doubt.
Doubt can be triggered by something obvious (for example, if you were to claim, "We're building a social media company and we're going head-to-head with Facebook!"), and at other times the trigger might not be obvious.
You can identify non-obvious triggers of doubt by delivering your pitch to someone who's not involved in your startup and asking them to raise their hand the moment they begin experiencing even the slightest feeling of doubt.
After you do this with a few test audiences, you'll be able to identify any points that consistently trigger their ventromedial prefrontal cortex, and either modify what you say or provide some supporting evidence immediately following.
If there's a potential major issue or obstacle of which your audience is likely to be aware, address it early in your presentation. For example, let's say one of your cofounders previously founded a company that's now being sued. Acknowledge the issue up front rather than let your audience wonder whether you're going to bring it up. Taking it off the table in this way allows everyone to focus on your presentation rather than on the elephant.
If there's something you want your audience to ask you about, mention it briefly in your presentation and note that you'd be happy to give more details at the end if time permits. This technique has been used by many startups to effectively guarantee that the first question they're asked is the one to which they're ready to give a great answer.
You should be able to anticipate most of the questions that come up from investors. Doing so allows you to have answers at the ready, and perhaps even have a backup slide or two that address the questions. You can do this by road testing your presentation on a friendly investor audience (such as a mentor who has also been an investor), or even someone who's low on your investor wish list, and noting the questions that come up frequently.
The biggest mistake that startup founders make with investor pitches is to not prepare sufficiently.
Unless you're an extremely practiced presenter, it's likely that your presentation will improve with each cycle of delivery > feedback > editing, up to about 20 iterations. The most useful feedback will come from people who've seen a lot of pitches (such as investors or experienced mentors), and the least useful comes from friends or family.
Practicing your pitch helps you to memorize it, allowing you to deliver it in a more authentic and relaxed way, rather than using all of your mental energy just to recall the content and delivering a stilted, nervous presentation.
Practicing also helps you to resist the temptation to repeatedly look at the slides on the screen while you present. A good rule of thumb is to test, refine, and improve your presentation at least 10 times before you deliver it to an investor audience, and to practice at least one hour for every minute of your pitch. That is, to prepare a 20-minute investor presentation, you practice it at least 10 times, for a total of about 20 hours by the time you've settled on a final version.
Tip
A great way to quickly familiarize yourself with the presentation content and practice thinking on your feet is to play the slide shuffle game with a friend. You print your presentation slides, shuffle them, and hand them to a friend. The friend holds up a slide at random, and you immediately begin presenting the content that's relevant to that slide. Continue through the entire deck.
Some people are tempted to script their entire pitch. This is generally not helpful, because few people can memorize an entire 20-minute presentation. Presenters tend to lose their train of thought partway through, and it can be difficult to regain it. Even if you do memorize the script, it might sound like you're reading something rather than speaking authentically.
Most people find it's helpful to script the first couple of sentences of a pitch. By doing this and rehearsing them until you could say them in your sleep, you can start your presentation with confidence, knowing exactly what you plan to say at the outset. After the first couple of sentences, you'll relax into a more natural speaking style.
The following videos demonstrate some of the pitch techniques covered in this module. Take a few minutes to view each one. Note what you like and dislike. Would any of these techniques work well in your own startup pitch?
Was this page helpful?
