H1 Tags:
Test assumptions with customers

H2 Tags:
Planning and conducting customer interviews
Scenario: Top five assumptions
A note of caution about online surveys
Building user personas
Scenario: A user persona
Task: Create your own user persona
Feedback

P Tags:
This browser is no longer supported.
Upgrade to Microsoft Edge to take advantage of the latest features, security updates, and technical support.
So far in this module, we focused on capturing and prioritizing your assumptions. In this unit and the next one, we focus on testing critical assumptions by using customer interviews and experiments.
Interviewing customers is a powerful way to get inside the mind of your target customer. By interviewing, you can test your assumptions before building a product. It's also inexpensive and time efficient.
To get the most out of customer interviews, it's important that you construct well-thought-out questions and avoid falling into common traps.
Do:
Don't:
As a guide, for business-to-business (B2B) startups, it's important to interview at least 50 customers. For business-to-consumer (B2C) startups, aim for at least 200.
Wherever possible, frame your questions as falsifiable statements. Set a minimum success criterion above which you consider your hypothesis to be validated, and below which you consider it invalidated.
If an assumption is validated, continue on your current path. If an assumption is invalidated, consider a pivot or change in direction.
Emily is working on an idea for a personal banking product that consolidates multiple bank feeds into a streamlined dashboard interface.
First, Emily completed the Value Proposition Canvas and the Lean Canvas. These tools helped her identify more than 20 assumptions. Next, Emily used an assumptions matrix to narrow down the list. She then had five assumptions that she believed were highly important and about which she had relatively little knowledge. She also made sure that she had at least one assumption in each category of desirable, feasible, and viable.
Emily listed her top five assumptions as falsifiable statements. She used a success threshold that she believed would give her some confidence to proceed. Along with each statement, she identified whether the assumption was about desirability, feasibility, or viability.
Emily's top five assumptions:
It's tempting to believe that you can capture meaningful feedback from customers by sending out an online survey and analyzing the results. Surveys are quick and easy to create, but unfortunately, they're one of the least useful methods of capturing customer insights. Many people complete surveys with little thought about their responses. Even with well-constructed questions, you have no ability to delve deeper into interesting points that the respondent raises.
Surveys can play a useful role in capturing factual or numerical responses, such as demographic information, alongside customer interviews.
A user persona, or customer persona, is a fictional character created to represent a specific type of user that you plan to serve.
User personas are important because they help you develop empathy for your users and create a product with their specific needs in mind. The process of accurately defining user personas also helps you make decisions about product functionality and design.
User personas are based on the insights that you glean from customer interviews. If you plan to serve multiple customer segments, it's helpful to have a different persona to represent each segment.
When you're creating your user personas, ask yourself: Who is the target customer for this product? Why would it be important to them? How will they use it? What barriers are they facing that we can remove?
It's a good idea to include a few fictional details to make user personas feel as realistic as possible.
A basic user persona should at least include the following details:
Emily decides that based on her customer interviews, her most important target users are busy professionals aged 40 to 55 with above-average income and multiple banking relationships. She constructs the following "busy professional" persona to represent a target user.
She incorporates some of the common themes that arose in her interviews with customers. Such as, the banking brands that they currently associate with and the software products that they're familiar with and typically use.

Create a user persona that represents what you believe is your primary target user. Give the persona a name and description. Complete as many details as you can by using what you currently know about your target users. Check out the resources at the end of this module for some user persona templates.
Was this page helpful?
