H1 Tags:
Revenue models

H2 Tags:
Common startup revenue models
Task: Evaluate a revenue model
Feedback

P Tags:
This browser is no longer supported.
Upgrade to Microsoft Edge to take advantage of the latest features, security updates, and technical support.
It's important to test your assumptions with customers before you spend time building a product.
You can—and should—apply the same principle of testing assumptions to other parts of your business; for example, how you select the revenue model that you'll use to generate sales and grow your business.
A revenue model is a strategy for how to:
In other words, a revenue model encompasses all the factors you need to consider when you think about how your business will generate and scale revenue.
Companies can have more than one revenue model. Generally, each product or service has its own revenue model. Your choice of revenue model affects every aspect of your business, so you need to:
There are many ways in which startups can generate revenue. For this module, we'll disregard traditional brick-and-mortar revenue models like retail and focus on models that tech startups use.
The following are the 10 most common models that tech startups use.
Description: Customers pay based on the frequency or volume at which they use or consume your product.
Ideal for: Infrastructure businesses that provide services that users can't afford to own, but need to access; examples are Azure or Twilio.
Practical considerations:
Description: Customers sign up for your product. In return for ongoing use, they pay you a recurring subscription fee. This type of delivery is known as software as a service (SaaS). The fee can be annual, quarterly, monthly, or weekly.
Ideal for: Software products that customers use regularly and continue using for an extended period; examples are Microsoft 365 or Adobe Photoshop.
Practical considerations:
Description: Make sales by directly contacting potential customers (outbound sales) or enabling customers to contact you directly (inbound sales).
Ideal for: High-value products or services. Enterprise customers where relationships are crucial, or sales require interaction with multiple decision-makers and influencers over time; an example is SAP.
Practical considerations:
Description: Get paid a commission from a set fee or a percentage of the transaction value every time a transaction takes place.
Ideal for: Marketplace or platform businesses that connect a buyer with a seller; examples are Airbnb or Upwork.
Practical considerations:
Description: Make one-off sales and get paid a set price for each transaction.
Ideal for: Physical products that can be purchased online via an e-commerce store; an example is most Shopify stores.
Practical considerations:
Description: Deliver a service in-person or online and get paid an agreed amount or a fee based on dollars per unit of time.
Ideal for: Consulting, graphic design, web development, educational instruction, or any service that can be delivered to a customer.
Practical considerations:
Description: Get paid for renting a physical product to a customer. Can be on a flat fee per-use basis or based on time or distance.
Ideal for: Any item that users want to use sporadically, but not enough that it makes sense for them to buy and maintain their own; an example is Lime electric scooter rentals. Works for expensive items or those items that require complex maintenance; an example is UberAIR helicopter rental.
Practical considerations:
Description: Get paid a license fee for granting another company the right to use your intellectual property (IP) for an agreed purpose.
Ideal for: Advanced technologies that could be used by multiple licensees, or in applications where your technology is only part of a solution and relies on an existing product or infrastructure that you don't own; an example is image-correction software for use on MRI scanners.
Practical considerations:
Description: Indirect sales made by third parties that you appoint as agents or resellers.
Ideal for: Products or services that naturally sit alongside another company's offering as an upsell or specialist product; an example is companies that partner with Microsoft via the Microsoft Partner Network.
Practical considerations:
Description: Sell advertising space to companies that want to promote their product or service.
Ideal for: Websites that attract a large number of visitors.
Practical considerations:
Select the revenue model that you believe makes most sense for your startup. Write a list of pros and cons for how this revenue model would work in your startup. Ask yourself what assumptions need to hold true for this revenue model to work. Consider how you can test those assumptions with customers, either through customer interviews or by running experiments.
Was this page helpful?
